---
slug: careers/openings/
title: Openings
category: careers
description: The following are Fluid Attacks' job openings. Do not hesitate to apply now!
keywords: Fluid Attacks, Careers, Profile, Selection, Process, Job, Developer, Ethical Hacker, Web Developer, Pentester
---

If you are interested, motivated, and have the required skills, we may
have an opening for you. The list and descriptions below are our most
frequent job openings.

## Ethical Hacker / Pentester

We need people with a developer profile, who like to program, and are
interested in Information Security for pentesting.

You must have a basic knowledge and understanding of networks, `IT`
infrastructure and be able to work effectively as part of a team.

Previous work experience is not needed. You do not need to have a
university degree. You must be available full-time, but scheduling is
negotiable if you are a student.

## IT Project Manager

You must have a university degree, basic technical knowledge,
understanding of information security, and some relevant experience in
networks and `IT` infrastructure. `PMP` (Project Management
Professional) certification is a plus, but not mandatory in order to
apply for this position.

## IT Security Architect

Although you do not need to have a university degree to apply for this
position, you must conduct yourself in a professional manner and have
substantial knowledge and understanding of networks, `IT`
infrastructure, and information security.

- **Responsibilities:**

    - Structure, define, and jointly design security requirements and
      controls in physical facilities, as well as in technologies and
      organizational processes.

    - Investigate, analyze, propose and implement methodologies and
      security best practices to maintain an impenetrable security
      environment.

    - Interact effectively in a variety of business areas to provide
      advice on security risks and controls in order to help prevent
      the occurrence of critical security events.

A finished university degree is not mandatory.

## IT Support Assistant

This is an intern position for systems and software areas. You must have
experience in the use of office solutions.

- **Responsibilities:**

    - Provide guidance and software support.

    - Support the administrative, production and human resources
      departments.

<p style="text-align:center">
  <img
    class="tc w5"
    src="https://res.cloudinary.com/fluid-attacks/image/upload/v1657219483/airs/careers/autonomic-logo.webp"
    alt="Autonomic Mind logo"
  />
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/company/autonomicmind/">
    <img
    style="vertical-align: bottom;padding-left: 30px;"
    src="https://res.cloudinary.com/fluid-attacks/image/upload/v1620242594/airs/careers/logo-linkedin_chsrhc.webp"
    alt="Linkedin logo"
    />
  </a>
</p>

## Openings in Autonomic Mind

Autonomic Mind is a company providing specialized `IT` recruitment
services. They find and recruit the top employees in the `IT` industry,
and act as a bridge between them and prospective employers. Autonomic
Mind helps clients achieve their business goals by connecting people
with the right skills to the right employers in order to advance a
company’s competitiveness.

Autonomic Mind also recruits top tier employees for Fluid Attacks, as
well as telecommunication companies, financial institutions and other
corporations that require employees with exceptional technical
abilities.

The following openings are currently available with clients other than
Fluid Attacks:

## Front End Developer

Knowledge, skills, and abilities:

- Develop responsive web applications.

- Knowledge of frameworks sufficient to design views and web
  components.

- Take mock-ups from a concept to a user experience-based solution.

- Knowledge of `CSS` and criteria sufficient to choose the best design
  for a given web project.

- Ensure the consistency of the modules, the appearance and all
  interactions with the user interface.

- Knowledge in agile methodologies, tests, and deliveries in
  multidisciplinary teams.

- Communicate at a high level of proficiency, both conversationally
  and technically, in spoken and written English.

- Understand the web development process, as well as business
  solutions, tests and debugging processes.

- 3 to 5 years experience with technologies such as `JavaScript`,
  `HTML`, `CSS3`, `JSON` and `AngularJS`.

- Solid knowledge of what constitutes a good interaction design.

- Experience building responsive and friendly web solutions.

Desirable:

- Basic back-end knowledge.

- Knowledge in graphics design.

- Experience using Microsoft Azure, `AWS` or similar platforms.

- Knowledge of Ruby on Rails, `WPF`, `Unity` or `C#`.

## Senior Software Developer

Professional with at least `5` years of experience in software
development building programs and routines of low, medium and high
complexity that provide solutions to requirements according to the norms
and standards of the organization.

Knowledge, skills, and abilities:

- Skills in more than 1 programming language such as `Java`, `.NET`,
  `C#`, `Ruby` or `Python`.

- Knowledge of the POO programming paradigm.

- Knowledge in `JavaScript`, `HTML 4` and `5`, `CSS`, `Ajax`.

- Knowledge of database engines on a large scale (`ORACLE`, `SQL
  SERVER`, `DB2`, `MySQL`).

- Stored procedures (`PL / SQL`, `Transact SQL`).

- Knowledge in Application Servers (`IIS`, `OAS`, `IBM WEBSPHERE`,
  `WEBLOGIC`).

- Platforms and operating systems such as `GNU / Linux`, `Unix`
  (`AIX`, `SOLARIS`).

- Knowledge of `Git` repositories.

- UML Diagrams.

- Documentation.

- Eliciting requirements.

## Junior Software Developer

Students in Computer Science, Electronics, Engineering, or other related
careers. This position focuses on creating tools to support the
manufacturing of products with methods, algorithms and solutions that
meet a client company’s expectations. You must be able to gather product
information and document it, following the standards and formats defined
in the appropriate area. You must also be able to guarantee the quality
of the developments based on the artifacts defined by the organization.
For these reasons, software development experience is desired but not
mandatory.

It is also desirable that the applicant be knowledgeable in Inspire
Designer, Inspire Automation, and programming languages ​​ such as
`Java`, `VB`, `.Net`, among others. In addition, knowledge of databases
and basic use of web tools is preferred.

A completed university degree is not required, however since we are
looking for individuals who can easily adapt to different languages used
within the organization, you must have good programming logic,
regardless of the language.

## Quality Assurance Tester

Knowledge, skills, and abilities:

- Design and execute assigned projects using the methodology and
  automation tools defined by the client company.

- Confirm certification of the tested application in accordance with
  test requirements determined by the client as specified in the scope
  and strategy of the project.

Preferably a minimum of 1 year experience in:

- Web applications development.

- Software architecture.

- Architecture Design Patterns.

- Architecture in layers and tiers.

- `SOA`.

- Database engines on a large scale (`ORACLE`, `SQL SERVER`, `DB2`,
    `MySQL`).

- Two or more of the following load testing tools:

    - `JMeter`.

    - `Neoload`.

    - `WAPT PRO`.

    - `LoadRunner`.

    - `SilkPerformer`.

    - `IBM` Rational Performance Tester.

    - `Scapa`.

- Execution of performance tests.

- Basic math and statistics.

- Project management.

Certifications in the following areas are desired:

- `ISTQB`.

- Software development.

- Databases.

- Software testing tools.
