---
slug: compliance/cve/
title: CVE
category: compliance
description: At Fluid Attacks, we work and keep up to date with the CVE list for our findings and reports, as well as contribute to community efforts.
keywords: Fluid Attacks, CVE, MITRE, Continuous Hacking, Security, Standards, Ethical Hacking, Pentesting
banner: bg-compliance-internal
template: compliance
---

<div class="paragraph fw3 f3 lh-2">

Fluid Attacks is among the cybersecurity companies that, for findings
and reports, work and stay up to date based on CVE identifiers. Thus,
you can conveniently set a link between the information we provide you
with and many other CVE-compatible sources for the benefit of your
company’s security. Additionally, Fluid Attacks' red team, with its
skillful ethical hackers dedicated to discovering zero-day
vulnerabilities, is currently part of the CVE community that feeds the
CVE List.

</div>

<div class="sect2 fw3 f3 lh-2">

### What is CVE?

[CVE](https://cve.mitre.org/index.html) (Common Vulnerabilities and
Exposures) is a free-to-use list of publicly known cybersecurity
vulnerabilities. It was established in 1999 as an international
dictionary with standardized identifiers for vulnerabilities — each
record has an identification number, a description and public
references. This project’s main objectives were to reduce the
inconsistency between cybersecurity databases and tools (there was not
much agreement on identifying security issues) and facilitate data
sharing. Nowadays, CVE is incorporated into many products and services
worldwide, and ensures certainty among stakeholders when communicating
about vulnerabilities. It also provides a useful baseline for evaluating
and comparing tools and services, especially with regards to their
coverage.

The [U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s](https://www.dhs.gov/) (DHS)
[Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency](https://www.cisa.gov/cybersecurity-division) (CISA) sponsors
CVE. On the other hand, the American not-for-profit organization
[MITRE](https://www.mitre.org/) copyrighted the CVE List to keep it a
free and open standard and legally protect its use. CVE is not a
vulnerability database but feeds the [NVD
database](https://nvd.nist.gov/) (also sponsored by CISA) and others
with data on all CVE Records. These records' IDs are like this one:
[CVE-2020-29659](/../../advisories/prine) (a vulnerability discovered by
the Fluid Attacks team in 2020). And the information shown in their
descriptions may comprehend some of these details: affected
product/service, versions and vendors, the type of vulnerability, its
impact and the code or inputs involved.

Being a standard method for identifying vulnerabilities and exposures,
CVE does not delve into technical aspects and leaves them to the
databases, which provide extended information for every CVE Record. CVE
allows the connection of diverse elements oriented towards
cybersecurity. So, when your company, for example, hires a security
testing service and receives vulnerability reports with CVE Records, you
can then access information in other tools, services or databases
(compatible with CVE) to better understand and remediate the security
issues.

</div>
