---
slug: security-trends/
title: Security in Trends
date: 2019-10-03
subtitle: Cybersecurity risks in technology trends
category: opinions
tags: cybersecurity, company, trend
image: https://res.cloudinary.com/fluid-attacks/image/upload/v1620331094/blog/security-trends/cover_v2lf0a.webp
alt: Photo by Stephen Dawson on Unsplash
description: In this article, we discuss the main cybersecurity trends for 2019, how to keep your company secured, and how Fluid Attacks deals with these kinds of threats.
keywords: Cybersecurity, Trends, Fluid Attacks, Perspective, Techniques, Attacks, Ethical Hacking, Pentesting
author: Oscar Prado
writer: oprado
name: Oscar Prado
about1: Industrial Automation Engineer
about2: Fluid Attacks Developer, Hacker Wannabe
source: https://unsplash.com/photos/qwtCeJ5cLYs
---

In today’s world technology evolves rapidly. New tools, approaches, and
trends seem to come out on almost a daily basis. It’s our duty to keep
pace with these changes, adapt to new technologies and apply all our
knowledge, skills, and abilities to **find and report all
vulnerabilities as soon as possible**.

In this article, we will discuss some of the main technology trends for
2019, the cybersecurity risks these trends may cause, and security
prospects in upcoming years.

## Internet of Things

With the spread of `IoT` (Internet of Things) technologies, more devices
are exposed every day to the Internet, but they are not necessarily
secure. `IoT` devices provide additional entry points for attackers,
giving them a whole repertoire of mechanisms to compromise confidential
information.

<div class="imgblock">

![Main IoT Targets](https://res.cloudinary.com/fluid-attacks/image/upload/v1620331093/blog/security-trends/iot-attacks_fvrvko.webp)

<div class="title">

Figure 1. IoT Targets, source: [Bank Info
Security](https://www.bankinfosecurity.com/attacks-targeting-iot-devices-windows-smb-surge-a-13082).

</div>

</div>

According to Bank Info Security [\[1\]](#r1), attackers continue
targeting the same `IoT` flaws reported and disclosed 3 years ago. `IoT`
malware, such as
[Mirai](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/ddos/glossary/mirai-botnet/),
keeps growing, escalating and mutating. Your mobile, webcam, router or
even your printer can be a target. And these attacks are not
particularly difficult to perform; you can even find [Youtube
tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6JFP_gUIZZY) about them.

If you’re part of the industry, you aren’t safe either, since `PLCs`,
`SCADA` systems, smart sensors, and drives are also `IoT` devices that
can be compromised as a result of a `Mirai Botnet` attack. This may be
discouraging, even more so if we consider that in upcoming years, the
amount of `IoT` devices will increase considerably. We can, however,
mitigate some risks now through system hardening, and something as
simple as changing the default credentials as well as using [secure
passwords](../requiem-password/). All of these can prevent an `IoT`
attack.

## Companies in the Cloud

Most companies are now migrating to the cloud. The advantages of
Infrastructure as Code (`IaC`) are clear: maintainability, scalability,
and pricing, among others. With cloud computing service providers like
[Amazon Web Services](https://aws.amazon.com/), [Digital
Ocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/) or [Microsoft
Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/es-es/) with large dedicated teams
maintaining their servers, our small infrastructure team seems obsolete
in comparison. It’s better to outsource this aspect to bigger companies
and stop worrying about physical infrastructure. Well, this is not
completely true. We cannot disregard the security aspect; the providers
fulfilled their duty, now we must fulfill ours.

According to Ben Morris, of [`Bishop Fox`](https://www.bishopfox.com/)
[<sup>\[2\]</sup>](#r2), speaking at [Defcon Security Conference
\#27](https://www.defcon.org/html/defcon-27/dc-27-index.html), hundreds
of thousands of `Amazon Elastic Block Storage` (`EBS`), have
misconfigurations that led to sensitive data leakages: passwords,
authentication keys, and encryption keys, among others.

<div class="imgblock">

![AWS misconfigurations](https://res.cloudinary.com/fluid-attacks/image/upload/v1620331091/blog/security-trends/aws-alarm_qu2dfx.webp)

<div class="title">

Figure 2. AWS Alerts on bucket misconfigurations. Source: [AWS users leaving
sensitive Data](https://thenextweb.com/security/2017/06/02/amazon-web-services-leak-data-aws/).

</div>

</div>

And what’s worse is in 2018, more than `70` million records were leaked
due to poorly configured `AWS S3` buckets [<sup>\[3\]</sup>](#r3). The
main cause of this kind of vulnerability was again the human factor. A
lack of knowledge or negligence regarding infrastructure settings can
directly impact your company. A weak `AWS` configuration can be detected
using automated tools. Asserts, a product we used to offer, detected
these flaws, using the [`AWS Cloudtrail
module`](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudtrail/).
However, some of the cloud leakages were also caused by hardware
vulnerabilities [<sup>\[3\]</sup>](#r3), such as `Spectre`
[<sup>\[4\]</sup>](#r4), `Meltdown` [<sup>\[5\]</sup>](#r5) or
`Foreshadow` [<sup>\[6\]</sup>](#r6), that exploit vendor chips'
vulnerabilities to gain access to shared memory pools on physical
systems. So, it is important to keep up to date with both software and
hardware to avoid these kinds of attacks.

<div>
<cta-banner
buttontxt="Read more"
link="/solutions/vulnerability-management/"
title="Get started with Fluid Attacks' Vulnerability Management solution
right now"
/>
</div>

At Fluid Attacks, we have all our infrastructure as code. We use
[AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) as our cloud computing service
provider, [terraform](https://www.terraform.io/) and
[docker](https://www.docker.com/) to configure our infrastructure, and
[Gitlab as service](https://gitlab.com/) to [regenerate our
datacenter](../../about-us/events/burn-the-datacenter/) on every new
version of our products. We implement infrastructure hardening using
[ephemeral
secrets](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/why-we-need-dynamic-secrets) in
a serverless approach. At Fluid Attacks, we take security very
seriously, since it’s our value promise.

## Machine Learning

Machine Learning, Neural Networks, and Artificial Intelligence have
demonstrated that they have several applications, and cybersecurity is
not an exception. This topic has been widely addressed in [several blog
entries](../tags/machine-learning/), so instead,
let’s discuss Fluid Attacks'
opinion about the prospects for Machine Learning in the
cybersecurity field

At Fluid Attacks, we do not discourage the use of automated tools in
security tests; However, a real security issue comes up when only
automated tools are used, since these tools can report false positives.
For example, in the case of neural networks, some inputs can
[fool](../fool-machine/) the entire algorithm. Automated tools also do
not have the human malice to correlate vulnerabilities and then [create
more complex attack vectors](../importance-pentesting/). We see machine
learning emerging technologies more as tools rather than the holy grail
of cybersecurity that will [replace human
hackers](../replaced-machines/). These tools can help our analysts to
decide where to look first, what portions of code may have
vulnerabilities and require further attention, or which inputs may not
have been properly sanitized.

## E-Commerce

In today’s world, businesses usually have an online alternative for
purchasing or selling products or services. These online alternatives
have to be handled with extreme care since most cyberattacks aim to
profit from these functionalities. E-commerce attacks come in all shapes
and sizes [<sup>\[7\]</sup>](#r7): phishing, identity theft, DDOS,
credit card frauds, and more.

Most attacks are based on social engineering. These are attacks that try
to trick the victim into performing actions (click a link or provide
confidential information) that help the attacker gain control over the
victim’s transactions.

<div class="imgblock">

!["Verizon findings"](https://res.cloudinary.com/fluid-attacks/image/upload/c_scale,w_500/v1620331092/blog/security-trends/verizon-findings_qc7unv.webp)

<div class="title">

Figure 3. Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report 2019. Source:
[Summary of findings](https://enterprise.verizon.com/resources/reports/dbir/2019/summary-of-findings/).

</div>

</div>

According to Verizon, in its annual *Data Breach Investigations Report*
[<sup>\[8\]</sup>](#r8), social engineering is the second most used
tactic to extract confidential information. This is worrying because it
doesn’t matter how secure an application is if users are fooled into
providing access credentials. This, of course, applies to E-commerce as
well.

One effective way to help reduce social engineering attacks is to train
people via presentations and workshops on how to identify a phishing
attack, along with basic security measures they can execute before
providing personal information when purchasing online. A few of these
are checking the URL and certificates, and being suspicious when the
application asks for too much information, etc.

---
## Conclusions

As technology evolves, cybersecurity should evolve as well. But often
what should happen differs from what does happen. Cyberattacks become
more complex and solutions, patches, and fixes take too much time to
develop and deploy. On the bright side, with increasing cyberattacks,
cybersecurity is becoming more relevant. Companies are investing more in
security, developing tools such as machine learning, neural networks,
and AIs, and considering security risk consequences before exposing
applications to the Internet. As a result, more companies now believe
what Fluid Attacks has always known, security should be applied to the
entire software development lifecycle (SDLC).

## References

1. [Attacks Targeting IoT Devices and Windows SMB
    Surge](https://www.bankinfosecurity.com/attacks-targeting-iot-devices-windows-smb-surge-a-13082).

2. [Ben Morris - Defcon Security Conference
    \#27](https://www.defcon.org/html/defcon-27/dc-27-speakers.html#Morris).

3. [2019 Internet Security Threat
    Report](https://www.symantec.com/security-center/threat-report?om_ext_cid=biz_vnty_istr-24_multi_v10195).

4. [Spectre Attacks: Exploiting Speculative
    Execution](https://spectreattack.com/spectre.pdf).

5. [Meltdown: Reading Kernel Memory from User
    Space](https://meltdownattack.com/meltdown.pdf).

6. [Foreshadow: Breaking the Virtual Memory Abstraction with Transient
    Out-of-Order Execution](https://foreshadowattack.eu/).

7. [A Rising of E-Commerce Cyber Attack & Most Dangerous Cyber Threats
    of 2019](https://gbhackers.com/a-rising-of-e-commerce-cyber-attack-most-dangerous-threats-of-2019/).

8. [Verizon 2019 Data Breach Investigations
    Report](https://enterprise.verizon.com/resources/reports/dbir/).
