---
slug: compliance/hipaa/
title: HIPAA
category: compliance
description: At Fluid Attacks, through comprehensive analysis, we can help you comply with a variety of security standards for information technology, including HIPAA.
keywords: Fluid Attacks, HIPAA, PHI, Continuous Hacking, Security, Standards, Ethical Hacking, Pentesting
banner: bg-compliance-internal
template: compliance
---

<div class="sect2 fw3 f5 lh-2">

### How can Fluid Attacks help with HIPAA compliance?

Ensuring compliance with up-to-date security standards may become a
complicated issue for diverse organizations that use continually
evolving information technology for their businesses. Fluid Attacks
recognizes this and offers you comprehensive testing and analysis to
determine whether your company is effectively complying with all
corresponding security requirements.

Although Fluid Attacks’ [Continuous
Hacking](../../services/continuous-hacking/) service goes beyond the
HIPAA, testing around 200 technical security requirements in each of
your projects, we can guarantee the detection of all vulnerabilities in
your software associated with this standard. In addition, we provide you
with reliable reports so that your team can take the necessary steps to
adjust and maintain your information systems in line with such
requirements. We allow you to avoid penalties and, above all, guarantee
secure systems for customers or users, thus ensuring their continued
trust.

All our security testing is based on
[Criteria](https://docs.fluidattacks.com/criteria/), which is a set of
security requirements written by us in a comprehensible manner, using
several international standards as a reference. It allows you to
parameterize the assessments we make to your systems and determine what
your company agrees to comply with and what would be considered a
vulnerability.

</div>

<div class="sect2 fw3 f5 lh-2">

### What is HIPAA?

The [HIPAA](https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/index.html) or
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act is legislation
created by the U.S. Congress in 1996. It was enacted to regulate and
improve the flow of Protected Health Information (PHI; any data that
could be used to identify a patient) within the healthcare context to
avoid fraud and theft. This standard comprises five general rules, among
which we highlight the [Privacy
Rule](https://www.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/privacysummary.pdf) and
the [Security
Rule](https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/security/laws-regulations/index.html)
for the storage and handling of PHI by [covered
entities](https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/covered-entities/index.html)
(i.e., health plans, healthcare clearinghouses and healthcare providers)
and [business
associates](https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/privacy/guidance/business-associates/index.html).

</div>

<div class="sect2 fw3 f5 lh-2">

### What is HIPAA compliance?

The covered entities have to respond to and implement three particular
safeguards for the protection of PHI. These sets of requirements belong
to the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 45, Part 164, Subpart C -
Security Standards for the Protection of Electronic Protected Health
Information and are specifically the Administrative
([164.308](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/45/164.308)), the
Physical ([164.310](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/45/164.310))
and the Technical
([164.312](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/45/164.312)) safeguards.

Among the Administrative safeguards, we can observe requirements related
to implementing periodic reviews of information systems activity and
implementing policies to guarantee access to data by authorized
personnel and procedures for their supervision. Regarding the Physical
safeguards, we can see requirements associated with the use strategies
to control and validate individuals’ access to facilities and software
and the implementation of policies for the final disposition of
electronic PHI. Finally, for Technical safeguards, among other
requirements, we can highlight the employment of unique user
identifications, the automatic logoff for predetermined times of
inactivity, and the use of PHI encryption and decryption processes.

To see all the requirements of each of the safeguards, you can follow
these links: [164.308](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/45/164.308);
[164.310](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/45/164.310);
[164.312](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/45/164.312).

Every organization storing, processing or transmitting PHI must ensure
that their security controls meet the HIPAA rules’ requirements in order
to guarantee both the availability and privacy of data. Organizations
must prevent all types of unauthorized access to their systems and PHI
to avoid any security incidents and consequently respond to penalties.
Therefore, it is recommended that the covered entities conduct regular
evaluations of their security policies and procedures to identify
weaknesses and take prompt remedial action.

</div>