---
slug: compliance/cwe/
title: CWE
category: compliance
description: At Fluid Attacks, we work and keep up to date with the CWE list for our findings and reports, as well as contribute to community efforts.
keywords: Fluid Attacks, CWE, MITRE, Continuous Hacking, Security, Standards, Ethical Hacking, Pentesting
banner: bg-compliance-internal
template: compliance
---

<div class="paragraph fw3 f3 lh-2">

Fluid Attacks is among the cybersecurity companies recognizing the value
of and contributing to this collaborative community effort: CWE. In
their daily work, our ethical hackers, with their analysis tools, use
CWE’s updated public repository of software and hardware flaws as a
reference to define their coverage and classify and label their
findings. Thus, you can conveniently set a link between the information
we provide you with and many other CWE-compatible sources for the
benefit of your company’s security.

</div>

<div class="sect2 fw3 f3 lh-2">

### What is CWE?

[CWE](https://cwe.mitre.org/) (Common Weakness Enumeration) is a
community-developed, free-to-use list or dictionary of common hardware
and software weaknesses. CWE functions as a standard language for
security tools and operations that aim to identify, eliminate and
prevent weaknesses. The [U.S. Department of Homeland
Security’s](https://www.dhs.gov/) (DHS) [Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security
Agency](https://www.dhs.gov/cisa/cybersecurity-division) (CISA) sponsors
this project, which is managed by the [Homeland Security Systems
Engineering and Development
Institute](https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/hssedi) (HSSEDI),
which is in turn operated by [The MITRE
Corporation](http://www.mitre.org/) (MITRE). MITRE started their
software weakness categorizing efforts in 1999 and at that time created
the [CVE](https://cve.mitre.org/index.html) (Common Vulnerabilities and
Exposures) List. In 2005, they evaluated CVE for use in the code
assessment industry and produced the Preliminary List of Vulnerability
Examples for Researchers (PLOVER) document. In PLOVER, the researchers
succeeded in collecting known flaws in the code, abstracting them and
organizing them into common classes. Later, they established definitions
and descriptions for the groups of weaknesses, and it was then in 2006
that the CWE List and the associated classification taxonomy emerged.

In line with its website, CWE’s primary objective is to provide
information to development and security teams so that they can eliminate
the most common errors in software and hardware prior to deployment.
These errors are the weaknesses, which can lead to vulnerabilities. CWE
serves as a preventive measure against the many security vulnerabilities
that have represented problems for numerous organizations worldwide.
Some of the data present in each CWE entry are the following:
identification and description of the weakness type; explanation of how
the flaw may be introduced, and the applicable platforms; the likelihood
of exploit for the weakness, and information on its consequences and
potential mitigations; code samples; related CVE IDs; references.

CWE has evolved over the years in line with advances in technology, as
well as enterprise concerns and needs. For this reason, for example, CWE
has been including content for mobile applications since 2014 and
support for hardware weaknesses since 2020. Thanks to the community, the
information in CWE is constantly expanding and improving. There are also
resources such as [CWSS](https://cwe.mitre.org/cwss/) and
[CWRAF](https://cwe.mitre.org/cwraf/) to score the severity of
weaknesses and the [CWE
Top 25](https://cwe.mitre.org/top25/archive/2020/2020_cwe_top25.html) to
identify the most prevalent and critical flaws that can lead to
dangerous software vulnerabilities.

</div>