---
slug: compliance/pci/
title: PCI DSS
category: compliance
description: At Fluid Attacks, through comprehensive analysis, we can help you comply with a variety of security standards for information technology, including PCI.
keywords: Fluid Attacks, PCI SSC, PCI DSS, Continuous Hacking, Security, Standards, Ethical Hacking, Pentesting
banner: bg-compliance-internal
template: compliance
---

<div class="sect2 fw3 f5 lh-2">

### How can Fluid Attacks help with PCI DSS compliance?

Ensuring compliance with up-to-date security standards may become a
complicated issue for diverse organizations that use continually
evolving information technology for their businesses. Fluid Attacks
recognizes this and offers you comprehensive testing and analysis to
determine whether your company is effectively complying with all
corresponding security requirements.

Although Fluid Attacks’ [Continuous
Hacking](../../services/continuous-hacking/) service goes beyond the PCI
DSS, testing around 200 technical security requirements in each of your
projects, we can guarantee the detection of all vulnerabilities in your
software associated with this standard. In addition, we provide you with
reliable reports so that your team can take the necessary steps to
adjust and maintain your information systems in line with such
requirements. We allow you to avoid penalties and, above all, guarantee
secure systems for customers or users, thus ensuring their continued
trust.

All our security testing is based on
[Criteria](https://docs.fluidattacks.com/criteria/), which is a set of
security requirements written by us in a comprehensible manner, using
several international standards as a reference. It allows you to
parameterize the assessments we make to your systems and determine what
your company agrees to comply with and what would be considered a
vulnerability.

</div>

<div class="sect2 fw3 f5 lh-2">

### What is PCI DSS?

The Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council ([PCI
SSC](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/about_us/)) is a global
organization created in 2006 by several well-known credit card companies
to develop and promote the adoption of security standards in the payment
industry worldwide. The set of standards established is called PCI Data
Security Standard ([PCI
DSS](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/document_library?category=pcidss&document=pci_dss)),
with the latest version published in 2018. Looking for the prevention of
frauds, PCI DSS establishes the minimum requirements that any company
oriented towards storing, handling or transferring cardholder
information (e.g., payment account number, cardholder name) must
satisfy.

</div>

<div class="sect2 fw3 f5 lh-2">

### What is PCI DSS compliance?

PCI DSS applies to online stores or e-commerce sites, and even to
businesses with the credit card payment option available thanks to
third-party services such as PayPal. These standards and the scope of
compliance may show differences according to the activities (including
volume of transactions) performed by each company involved in the
processing of cardholder data. If this kind of information turns out to
be stolen, or the requirements are simply not met, although PCI is not a
government agency, companies must respond to sanctions. These penalties
may include large fines (from thousands to millions of dollars) and even
loss of the privilege of accepting card payment, not to mention the
implications on the customers’ trust and the company’s reputation.

Here is the list of requirements against which PCI DSS compliance is
validated (for specifications on requirements, sub-requirements and
security assessment procedures, please access the official document,
[Version 3.2.1](https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/document_library?category=pcidss&document=pci_dss)):

1.  Install and maintain a firewall configuration to protect cardholder
    data.

2.  Do not use vendor-supplied defaults for system passwords and other
    security parameters.

3.  Protect stored cardholder data.

4.  Encrypt transmission of cardholder data across open, public
    networks.

5.  Protect all systems against malware and regularly update anti-virus
    software or programs.

6.  Develop and maintain secure systems and applications.

7.  Restrict access to cardholder data by business need to know.

8.  Identify and authenticate access to system components.

9.  Restrict physical access to cardholder data.

10. Track and monitor all access to network resources and cardholder
    data.

11. Regularly test security systems and processes.

12. Maintain a policy that addresses information security for all
    personnel.

PCI DSS compliance must be an ongoing process that involves identifying
which cardholder information assets are being used, as well as under
what procedures, before analyzing them forsecurity vulnerabilities. It
must also include the remediation of those vulnerabilities in order to
shrink the attack surface and the sharing of subsequent corresponding
documentation, i.e., compliance reports, with the banking companies
concerned. Additionally, organizations should constantly monitor
potential threats, perform penetration testing and receive advice from
experts to confirm this standard’s compliance.

</div>