---
slug: compliance/gdpr/
title: GDPR
category: compliance
description: At Fluid Attacks, through comprehensive analysis, we can help you comply with a variety of security standards for information technology, including GDPR.
keywords: Fluid Attacks, GDPR, EU, Continuous Hacking, Security, Standards, Ethical Hacking, Pentesting
banner: bg-compliance-internal
template: compliance
---

<div class="sect2 fw3 f3 lh-2">

### How can Fluid Attacks help with GDPR compliance?

Ensuring compliance with up-to-date security standards may become a
complicated issue for diverse organizations that use continually
evolving information technology for their businesses. Fluid Attacks
recognizes this and offers you comprehensive testing and analysis to
determine whether your company is effectively complying with all
corresponding security requirements.

Although Fluid Attacks’ [Continuous
Hacking](../../services/continuous-hacking/) service goes beyond the
GDPR, testing around 200 technical security requirements in each of your
projects, we can guarantee the detection of all vulnerabilities in your
software associated with this standard. In addition, we provide you with
reliable reports so that your team can take the necessary steps to
adjust and maintain your information systems in line with such
requirements. We allow you to avoid penalties and, above all, guarantee
secure systems for customers or users, thus ensuring their continued
trust.

All our security testing is based on
[Criteria](https://docs.fluidattacks.com/criteria/), which is a set of
security requirements written by us in a comprehensible manner, using
several international standards as a reference. It allows you to
parameterize the assessments we make to your systems and determine what
your company agrees to comply with and what would be considered a
vulnerability.

</div>

<div class="sect2 fw3 f3 lh-2">

### What is GDPR?

[GDPR](https://gdpr-info.eu/) refers to the General Data Protection
Regulation that appeared in 2016 and was implemented in 2018 as a
replacement of the EU Data Protection Directive 95/46/EC. GDPR is
constituted as a set of rules for data protection and privacy within the
European Union (EU) and the European Economic Area (EEA). The GDPR rules
apply to any company that stores, processes or transfers personal
information of European citizens, even operating outside those
territories. GDPR aims to protect data that can lead to the
identification of a person. Beyond the typical examples of names,
numbers and addresses, it also covers, for instance, health treatments
and history, economic situation, physical and behavioral
characteristics, and even genetic data. Organizations are required to
follow data protection requirements in processing activities and
business practices from their initial stages.

</div>

<div class="sect2 fw3 f3 lh-2">

### What is GDPR compliance?

GDPR is a regulation that unifies international data protection laws
within Europe, and at the same time reinforces the individual rights in
relation to the handling of their personal data. GDPR compliance is an
obligation for companies of all sizes both inside and outside Europe
that make use (not only through digital means) of personal information
of European subjects.

To ensure GDPR compliance, and after understanding the corresponding
legal framework, it is necessary that every company follow multiple
requirements that are associated with a diversity of practices, such as
the following:

  - Identify all personal information being used.

  - Recognize the infrastructure and all parties involved in the use of
    information.

  - Evaluate private data access permissions.

  - Verify that explicit consents are requested for the use of the
    information.

  - Maintain data processing with documented legal support.

Compliance with this regulation may concern all members of an
organization. It is expected that breaches or theft and misuse of
customer and user information be avoided at all costs. Penalties for
non-compliance with GDPR can currently correspond to fines of up to €20
million or 4% of the global annual turnover, whichever is higher.

</div>